# Identification-of-BUB1-KIF20A-and-TOP2A-as-key-prognostic-genes-of-triple-negative-breast-cancer-by

## Authors
Charles C.N. Wang, Chen-De Lun

## Abstract
Improved insight into the molecular mechanisms of Triple Negative Breast Cancer (TNBC) is required to predict prognosis and develop a new therapeutic strategy for targeted genes. The aim of this study is to identify significant genes associated with TNBC and to further analyze its prognostic significance. In this study, we downloaded the TCGA-BRCA dataset (1,222 breast Cancer RNA-seq samples) from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) project, and screened 116 samples that lacked expression in ER, PR, and HER2 and 113 normal tissue samples to explore the differential co-expression genes between normal tissues and TNBC samples. A total of 147 differential co-expression hub genes were screened out by differential gene expression analysis and Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) methods, and gene enrichment analysis was constructed. In addition, a Protein-Protein Interaction (PPI) network of hub genes was generated, and then ten key genes were identified by Cytoscape. According to survival analysis, high expression of the key gene is associated with poor Overall Survival (OS) in breast cancer patients. Moreover, the three key genes (BUB1, KIF20A, and TOP2A) showed differences in Disease-Free Survival (DFS) expression in TNBC patients with high and low expression. Overall, our study shows that genes associated with survival are highly correlated with TNBC development. Thus, key genes may play important roles in the progression of TNBC and serve as a potential biomarker for future diagnosis and treatment.
